---
title: We Are a Listening Community
weight: 3
---

You are about to open a great gift.
Thirty-five stories were submitted to The Story Project. The team has spent the month of May evaluating them and will meet in June to determine how best to share each story with our congregation. Perhaps you wrote one of those stories: if so, thank you! You probably have some feeling of having “put yourself out there”—you sense the discomfort that can come from wondering, What’s next?
Between now and the end of the year, these stories will begin to trickle out into the life of our church. A few may show up in *The Visitor*; others may be shared on a Sunday morning. The bulk of them will be slated for publication in a book the team hopes to self-publish in December.
Those who sit near you in worship, who serve with you in the church kitchen, who study with you in Sunday school class—these are the ones who have taken time to chronicle some way God has been at work in their life. Some of them have written deeply personal, heartbreaking thoughts. Some have shared facts about themselves that they’re unsure how you’ll receive. They’ve done it, at least partly, hoping that you will be encouraged in your own walk with God and will believe even more strongly in His faithfulness in your own life. They have given of themselves to bless you. So right now is the time for us to think critically about how we want to welcome their gift:
- *Approach each story with humble curiosity.* You may be surprised at what some people have experienced. Or perhaps you’ve been in similar circumstances, but you made a very different choice about how to handle them. That’s okay. We’re not here to pass judgment on other people’s choices. Take each person’s experience at face value and purposely cultivate gratitude that someone is trusting you with details of their life.  
- *Treat the details of others’ lives with respect.* Obviously, The Story Project is about choosing to make these stories more public; this isn’t a small group experience where things must remain utterly confidential. Still, someone else’s story shouldn’t become fodder for gossip or small talk. Think carefully before you bring up conversation about someone else’s story with anyone except that person.  
- *If someone’s story resonates with you, tell them.* It can be very difficult to put a story out into the world and have no idea how it’s being received. If you can relate, or you’ve been reassured about God’s love, or you simply admire someone’s courage in sharing, *tell them*. Don’t keep it to yourself if someone’s story has been a blessing to you.  
- *Finally . . . enjoy the process!* Be amazed at the variety of life experiences and gifting that God has placed within First Baptist Church. Relish hearing the names of people you remember from decades past as they appear in the stories of some who’ve written. Discover the breadth of the ways God has worked and is working in the lives of those around you, and let it move you to praise Him all the more.
We are a listening community. Let’s approach our task—our gift—with humility and love. May it draw us closer together as a church and closer to our God.