---
author: Wade Allen
title: Into 2013
date: 2012-12-18
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

As we come to the close of another year, we often reflect on where we
have been and where we are going. As a church, 2012 has been a
particularly eventful year. We changed our Sunday morning schedule in
the spring and hired additional staff in the summer. Both of these
decisions involved a lengthy discernment process that began in 2011 and received strong congregational support. Nevertheless, such changes are significant for any congregation. Change is
never easy; it always requires adjustment on some level.

I wish I could say that 2013 will be the year of stability. It would be
nice to sit back and not have to think about significant changes.
Unfortunately, the world keeps changing around us and challenges us to
adapt. As we look into next year, I want to highlight at least two areas
of focus for January.

## Stewardship

One area of focus for 2013 will be stewardship. While this includes
financial stewardship, it is much more. As a congregation by necessity, we are
shifting leadership and ministry support toward younger attendees and
members. As we have experienced loss in recent years of ageing members (to
death and assisted living facilities), we are finding the pews filled
with younger people. This generation will need to pick up where the
older generation has left off. This is not to diminish the continued
participation but needed care of older members, but we must consider what
will be in the next twenty years. We will need to reconsider how we use
our resources as a part of this process. But at the same time, everyone
needs to be faithful in time, talent and financial resources if First
Baptist Church is to remain viable. We will be having a family
conversation regarding stewardship in the early part of 2013.

## New Communities

I have been working with a small team to implement new
communities/discipleship initiatives at the beginning of next year. We
have found that discipleship looks a bit different for the younger
generation. While the values are the same, culture has shifted
significantly in the last fifty years. We will be piloting a new
community beginning in February. This community has the potential for
great impact in our congregation and our local community. I hope that some of
you will consider joining this effort.

Will 2013 be a year of change? I am sure that it will be. What will
those changes be and how will they affect each of us? I am not sure.
Yet, I am convinced that God will lead us and direct us toward His
vision for First Baptist Church. We may need to shift our resources; we
may need to try new methods of ministry. May God give us the ability to
hear His voice as we navigate our ever-changing world. May He give us
the courage to adapt to new callings as we continue to fulfill the Great
Commission.

>(Matthew 28:19 NIV) Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit



