---
author: Wade Allen
title: Beyond Us
date: 2012-02-14
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

If you have not been at church for past few weeks, you are going to be pleasantly surprised when you walk down the main hallway. We have been blessed by a Ball State student who has poured herself into five works over the past few weeks. Each piece has a unique story, yet they all form a unified expression of who we are as a church.

This week, we come to our final action word. All that we do, our gathering and caring and empowering and stewarding is to impact our community. Throughout Scripture, we find God's story touching those on the outside. God's people are never a closed group; God is interested in extending his work to the world. 

This week, we explore Jesus's words in Matthew 5. The Sermon on the Mount is a powerful, challenging message describing the Kingdom that Jesus initiates. His Kingdom values stand in opposition to the virtues of this world. To inhabit this way of life is no trivial task. Yet, as we do, our lives carry weight in this world. Our co-workers, family, friends recognize something different, something powerful in us. Jesus describes our influence as **salt** and **light**. These two images articulate the imprint of our lives.

>You are the salt of the earth . . . You are the light of the world (Matthew 5:13-14)

Join us on Sunday as we explore Jesus's intention in using these images. What do they mean for us in 2012? How might all that do impact our community?