---
author: Wade Allen
title: Trust Psalm 25
date: 2012-02-20
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

I am pleased with our recent mission series. It has created an opportunity to define our purpose, our vision and our continued efforts as a congregation. If you have not had a chance to catch up on the sermons from this series, they are all posted on the Web site on a [Mission Series Videos page](http://fbcmuncie.org/why-we-exist/mission-series-videos/). If you have not had a chance to see the artwork, be sure to take a stroll down the main hallway. We hope to have the artwork (as well as descriptions) posted on the Web site in the next few weeks.

We turn now to our next series. At the same time, we enter the season of Lent. Through the season of Lent, we will be exploring the Psalm reading provided by the [lectionary](http://lectionary.library.vanderbilt.edu/) each week. This week we come to Psalm 25:1-10.

Psalm 25 challenges us to place our hope in God. While this may seem like an airy or clichéd saying, the demand of such a task can be daunting. Is God really trustworthy? What risks might I need to take to fully place my life in His hands? The psalmist begins,

>(Psalms 25:1 NIV) To you, O LORD, I lift up my soul;

This lifting up describes a great dependance on God. The psalmist is counting on God in a dramatic and passionate way; he places his very soul in God's hands. However, he is certain that the risk is worthwhile. 

Trusting God, following His way often requires us to leave our own way behind. Are we willing to abandon cultural norms to follow God's leading? Will we risk rejection from social circles to follow God's way? Trusting in God is more than intellectual assent to God's commands; it involves actively obeying his promptings. As we consider Psalm 25 this weekend, may God cement this truth in our souls.

>(Psalms 25:10 NIV) All the ways of the LORD are loving and faithful for those who keep the demands of his covenant.
