---
author: Wade Allen
title: Rest
date: 2012-04-16
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

Have you ever attended a lock-in? If you were in a youth group, the answer is probably *yes*. A lock-in usually involves staying up all night. I used to dread these events as a youth minister. I knew that the event would take its toll on me for the next week or so. It was fun staying up all night playing games, watching movies or playing hide-and-seek in the church. The bad part was the next day. I would usually go home and crash, sleeping 4 or 5 hours. I would wake up mid-afternoon and try to stay awake until bedtime. As I got older, these events were harder and harder. 

The problem is that our bodies are not designed for this schedule. We are fashioned for 7-8 hours of sleep each night. Somehow our bodies reset during this time and allow us to be productive during the remaining 16 hours of the day. In the same way, we function best when we provide adequate time for relaxing and winding down. If you have worked more than 12 hours in a day, you know the feeling. You feel worn down and your creative energy takes a nose dive.

We are created by God to function in particular patterns. When we veer too far from this design, we suffer. We learn in the Creation story a distinct pattern for our weeks. God creates for six days and rests on the seventh. It is not that God wanted a break. God is all-powerful and does not need a repose to sustain energy. Yet he rests in order to model a pattern for us. God rests because he designed us to rest. We are in the image of God and function in the patterns of our Creator.

In recent decades our world has shifted dramatically away from understanding proper rest. Join us on Sunday as we discuss the seventh day of Creation. It has extreme relevance to our lives in 2012.
