---
author: Wade Allen
title: Victory
date: 2012-04-02
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

I am going to do something this Easter that I don't think I have ever done; I am going to be preaching from a psalm. I have preached from the Gospel accounts of the resurrection or even one of Paul's epistles. It may seem strange to go to the Psalms at Easter. However when you look closer, it may make perfect sense.

Did you know that Jesus and the Apostles quoted Psalms more than any other Old Testament book? Did you realize that Jesus quoted from Psalms as he hung on the cross? Jesus certainly saw the connection of His ministry with the Psalms. While many psalms were written nearly a thousand years before Jesus, they have incredible relevance to His life, death, and resurrection.

This Sunday we will consider selected verses from Psalm 118. While Psalm 22 and 31 (both quoted from the cross) describe the anguish, uncertainty and suffering of the cross, Psalm 118 reflects on the victory of God's provision. On Easter we celebrate the most important truth in history, "He is Risen!" Yes God ventured to the depths on the cross, but His rising from the dead assures us that his death was not permanent. Look at how pertinent these words are to Easter.

>(Psalms 118:15–17 NIV)  15) Shouts of joy and victory resound in the tents of the righteous: “The LORD’s right hand has done mighty things! 16) The LORD’s right hand is lifted high; the LORD’s right hand has done mighty things!” 17) I will not die but live, and will proclaim what the LORD has done.

David (the writer of Psalm 118) uses the same language used by Jesus and the Apostles to describe God's plan in Christ. He talks about gates and capstones. The connection is astounding. Join us on Sunday as we explore Psalm 118 and celebrate the risen Christ. 

Remember that we will meet for breakfast at 9:30 am and combined worship at 10:45 am.
