---
author: Wade Allen
title: Words 
date: 2013-07-15
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

Have you ever been influenced by someone's words? Where they good or bad words? Did they make a powerful impact or did they cut through you like a knife? No doubt, words are powerful.

As we continue our series about putting on new clothes, our discussion turns toward our words, our mouths. We are instructed,

>(Ephesians 4:29 NIV) Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen.

On Sunday, we will explore this text. As we learn to live in our new clothes, we are challenged to carefully consider our words. You might remember, James told us,

>(James 3:3–6 NIV) When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal. Or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue also is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell. 

While we often let our words fly without much thought, we are reminded of the incredible power we hold in our words. Join us on Sunday as we explore this text.

