---
author: Wade Allen
title: Tychicus 
date: 2013-09-23
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

In the final words of Paul's letter to the Ephesians, he makes mention of this guy named Tychicus. Tychicus is his carrier. He is also mentioned in Colossians.

>(Colossians 4:7–8 NIV) Tychicus will tell you all the news about me. He is a dear brother, a faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. I am sending him to you for the express purpose that you may know about our circumstances and that he may encourage your hearts.

It is one thing to write a letter; it's another thing to send someone who is able to relate personal experience. Since the week following Easter, we have been working through the book of Ephesians. We have been studying this Scripture together each week. I find it interesting that Tychicus is mentioned in Paul's closing. We are clued into the fact that there is more to the story that is not written. 

>(Ephesians 6:21–22 NIV) Tychicus, the dear brother and faithful servant in the Lord, will tell you everything, so that you also may know how I am and what I am doing. I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage you. 

Don't you wish we could find out more? Don't you wish that we had access to Tychicus' Facebook feed? Paul understood that relating personal experience is extremely powerful. He did not simply send a letter; he sent a letter and a messenger. 

This Sunday, we are going to be sharing our personal experience with the book of Ephesians. We have four testimonies about interacting with the book of Ephesians. While Paul's words are powerful and cannot be replaced with our own, it is also important to share our experience. Just as Tychicus related Paul's story, some of you are going to relate your story. Join us on Sunday for an abbreviated sermon and four testimonies about our study in Ephesians. 
