---
author: Wade Allen
title: Unveiled
date: 2013-04-29
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---

A few weeks ago, we spent some time in Savannah, Georgia. The historic city was welcoming spring with flowers blooming and trees budding. While the city is filled with landmarks, one of the most popular tours is the ghost tour. Tourists travel in a convertible hearse. If you ask me, that alone is a bit creepy. Why are such excursions popular? It seems that mystery lures. From Sherlock Holmes to Alfred Hitchcock, we are drawn to the unknown. And who doesn't love a good mystery solved?

In this week's text, Paul describes his life's purpose as unveiling the mystery of God. For thousands of years, God's purposes were concealed. A chosen few were able to gain glimpses of God's movement, but His master plan was hidden. He describes it as

>(Ephesians 3:4-5 NIV) the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to men in other generations

Yet now things are different. 

>(Ephesians 3:5 NIV) it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God’s holy apostles and prophets.

Paul considers himself chosen by God to deliver the news (good news, gospel, *euaggelon*). While he considers the gospel (good news) unsearchable, untraceable, he envisions his life as bringing clarity to mystery of God. So what has been unveiled? What aspects of God's work have been brought to light? The crux of the news is spelled out in verse 12. 

>(Ephesians 3:12 NIV) In him and through faith in him we may approach God with freedom and confidence. 

This is astonishing. The work of God through Christ has given us unexplainable admission into God's presence. God's plan is now revealed. May we rejoice in the mystery unveiled. Join us on Sunday as we explore Ephesians 3:1-12 together.