---
author: Wade Allen
title: Focus
date: 2013-11-25
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
I am really looking forward to this week's sermon. I guess you could say that I am anticipating it. That is what this season is all about. Looking forward with a sense of urgency. A few weeks ago, when I was writing this sermon, I felt that it was particularly relevant in our culture. Paul is urging the Christians at Rome to pay attention to what God is doing in the world. He prods them to live in a way that is intentional, ready for action. 

This year, during Advent, we will be in the Epistle texts of the lectionary. Three of the sermons will be from the book of Romans. Paul urges Christians in Rome to live in the light as they anticipate all that God is doing. Too often, we are not prepared for God's movement. We are caught up in the busyness of our own lives, especially during the holiday season. This text challenges us to focus, to wake up to God's promptings. 

I hope that you will take a few minutes to read this week's text as you prepare for worship on Sunday. The season of Advent is a special season. May we each prepare appropriately for Christmas as we enter the season together. 

>(Romans 13:11–14 NIV) And do this, understanding the present time. The hour has come for you to wake up from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed. The night is nearly over; the day is almost here. So let us put aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us behave decently, as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and debauchery, not in dissension and jealousy. Rather, clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not think about how to gratify the desires of the sinful nature. 
