---
author: Wade Allen
title: Pride
date: 2014-09-22
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
As many of you know, I enjoy watching football. I especially like college football. One of the better games this past weekend was Florida State vs. Clemson. I was hoping that Clemson would pull off the win since they were defeated by Georgia. The game attracted the nation's attention because of the suspension of Florida State's quarterback. Jameis Winston is a high profile player. According to Wikipedia,

>At the age of 19 on December 14, 2013, Winston became the second freshman and youngest player to win the Heisman Trophy. On January 6, 2014, he led the Seminoles to a victory in the 2014 BCS National Championship Game and an undefeated 14–0 football season.

Winston has enjoyed an incredible level of success in sports. Yet he has mounted a list of poor judgments off the field. In April, Winston was accused of shoplifting crab legs from a local grocery store. Last year, he was accused of sexual assault. Prior to this weekend's suspension, Winston allegedly climbed onto a table in the student center and began shouting vulgarities. Why would an athlete with such a promising future do such things?

Pride.

While I do not know Jameis Winston, his actions indicate arrogance. He seems to believe that he is above the rules. He is accountable to no one. 

In this week's story, David is near the end of his life. Like Winston, David has quite the resume. He calls in his officials and orders a census. This may not seem like a big deal, but it was. In Exodus, God issues a prohibition against this sort of action.

>(Exodus 30:12 NIV) “When you take a census of the Israelites to count them, each one must pay the LORD a ransom for his life at the time he is counted. Then no plague will come on them when you number them. 

God did not want His people counting. He wanted them to rely on Him rather than put their faith in numbers. David's commander, Joab, attempts to dissuade David. But David refuses to listen. David's falls into the temptation of pride. The consequences of his action are enormous. Join us on Sunday as we explore 2 Samuel 24. 

