---
author: Wade Allen
title: Patience
date: 2014-07-21
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
Last week was a hard sermon. While God certainly speaks through all scripture, the passage on Saul's death was tragic, even gruesome. As we flip over to 2 Samuel this week, we find David's response to the death of Saul. We might think that he would celebrate or at least have a sense of relief. David mourns the events along with the rest of Israel. David's reaction to Saul's death reveals his heart of compassion. It shows us that his heart is aligned with God's heart.

One might think of David as a shoe-in for the next king. However, the transition was not quick. David is careful to seek God's direction as he assumes the throne of a portion of the Israel. It takes over 7 years for David to become king of the entire nation. Most of us would get impatient. David had been anointed by the prophet Samuel; why is he not yet king? Still David allows God to set the timetable. The text tells us,

>(2 Samuel 3:1 NIV) The war between the house of Saul and the house of David lasted a long time. David grew stronger and stronger, while the house of Saul grew weaker and weaker.

In time, David assumed the throne. But we must not forget that it took *a long time*. On Sunday, we will walk with David through this process. The stage is set for David to take the helm of the kingdom; but God does not throw the doors open too fast. David's response is admirable. As we explore 2 Samuel 2-5, we step into another chapter of David's life. As the story continues, we find application for our lives today.

