---
author: Wade Allen
title: Broken
date: 2014-08-25
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
David's actions in 2 Samuel 11 leave us in shock. It is hard to imagine *a man after God's own heart* as capable of such behavior. We walked last week through the saga. From idle time on the rooftop to murder. We read of the progression of sin; I would bet that even David was surprised at how it all ended up. As we flip over to 2 Samuel 12, it seems that David has escaped the embarrassment of his behavior. It appears that he has gotten away with murder. Literally.

Yet God seldom leaves his children in such a place. While I am sure that David dealt with guilt and shame, he seems willing to move on with his life. He has no intention of confessing his sin. In this week's story, we consider Nathan's encounter with David. Nathan is David's friend and prophet. His role in this ordeal is courageous. He risks his life as he confronts David. I love his style. I will not spoil the story, but you will find his confrontation extremely creative.

Not only we will consider David and Nathan's meeting, we will also examine David's response. We have to remember that David is king. He has immense power. He could have rejected Nathan's words. Yet David's heart is broken, humbled before God. David models for us authentic repentance. David cries out,

>(Psalms 51:3–4 NIV) For I know my transgressions, and my sin is always before me. Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight.

Join us on Sunday as we explore 2 Samuel 12 and Psalm 51. May this story challenge us as we turn from sin toward God.
