---
author: Wade Allen
title: Risen
date: 2016-03-23
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
My kids have been on spring break this week. We just returned from a brief trip to Georgia and I am am preparing for this coming Sunday. As most of you know, this is important weekend. We celebrate the linchpin of the Christian faith as we gather to proclaim the resurrection of Jesus. You might remember what Paul told the church at Corinth.

>(1 Corinthians 15:17 NIV) And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins.

On Sunday, we will walk through Luke's account of the women at the tomb. Luke presents three resurrection encounters in chapter 24. We will explore all three stories over the next three weeks. On Sunday, we will dive into the first one. We find a group of faithful women journeying to the tomb to anoint the body of Jesus. They are surprised to find an empty tomb and angels proclaiming,

>(Luke 24:6 NIV) He is not here; he has risen! 

This is the greatest news in all of history. Yet the first ones to encounter the news were bewildered, confused and doubting. In time, Jesus will clarify the reality of his resurrection. But at the end of this week's text, we find Peter wondering.

>(Luke 24:12 NIV) Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself what had happened.

Join us on Sunday as we explore the first of three stories. Also, plan to eat Easter brunch in the lower auditorium between early and late worship. The serve-yourself-buffet will be available at 10 AM. Those attending early worship can make their way down as soon as the service is over. Those attending late worship can arrive as early as 10 so they will have plenty of time to eat prior to the 10:45 gathering. See you on Sunday as we proclaim together,

>(Luke 24:6 NIV) He is not here; he has risen! 


