---
author: Wade Allen
title: Be Ready
date: 2016-11-22
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
As we approach the Thanksgiving holiday we are reminded that Christmas is just around the corner. Stores will open late on Thursday evening to begin what we call *Black Friday*. Just a few years ago, stores began opening at midnight. This year, many stores open as early as 5 PM on Thanksgiving Day. It seems that we (or at least the retailers) do not want to wait until Friday morning. As we begin the season of Advent, we begin the anticipation of Christmas. 

Throughout the Old Testament, we find an expectancy regarding the coming Messiah. The prophets envisioned God establishing a new Kingdom. Isaiah writes,

>(Isaiah 9:7 NIV) Of the greatness of his government and peace there will be no end. He will reign on David’s throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this.

Just as the people of the Old Testament prepared for the Messiah, we are called to get ready for Jesus' second coming. Through this season of Advent we will reflect on Paul's words in regard to Jesus' return. This week, we will look at Paul's letter to the Romans. In Romans 13:11-14, Paul challenges believers to *wake up* to all that God is doing.

>(Romans 13:11 NIV) And do this, understanding the present time: The hour has already come for you to wake up from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed.

Join us on Sunday as we explore Romans 13:11-14. May we have a heightened awareness of what God is doing (and is going to do) so that we be prepared to be a part of it.
