---
author: Wade Allen
title: Leaving
date: 2016-05-02
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
It was great to hear from the founders of TreeFort Ministries yesterday in worship. If you did not have a chance to hear Sandy, I would encourage you to [watch](http://fbcmuncie.org/video/2016/05/01/treefort-ministries/) when you have a few minutes. In the coming months, we hope to have opportunities to volunteer in this new and impactful ministry in Delaware County.

Sunday is Mother's Day and Ascension Sunday. I was torn a bit about where to go on this special day. Should we focus on the celebration of mothers or talk about the ascension of Jesus? I opted for the later. However, we do honor our mothers and don't want to overlook this significant occasion.

We return this week to our Easter season study. You might remember our spending quite a bit of time in Luke 24. In April, we engaged three post-resurrection stories. This week, we will return to the last few verses of this chapter (Luke 24:44-53). We pick up with a bit of overlap with our [April 10 sermon](http://fbcmuncie.org/video/2016/04/10/open-your-eyes/) and continue the story as we examine Jesus ascending into heaven.

This story is an important event in the life of the apostles. They had been with Jesus (both before his death and following his resurrection). He has loved them, prayed for them, taught them and encouraged them; he is now ready to depart. You might remember Jesus' conversation with Moses and Elijah on the Mount of Transfiguration. 

>(Luke 9:30-31 NIV) Two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in glorious splendor, talking with Jesus. They spoke about his departure, which he was about to bring to fulfillment at Jerusalem.

Before his death and resurrection, Jesus planned his departure (Greek word _exodon_). He knew that he would not stay with his followers (in a physical sense) forever. This Sunday, we will talk about how the ascension took place and Jesus' instructions to his followers in this event. 

Don't forget to honor the women who have served as mothers to you this week. At the same time, let's prepare to celebrate the fulfillment of Jesus' mission on earth in his ascension. I hope to see you Sunday.




