---
author: Wade Allen
title: Lost
date: 2016-03-01
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
God's Word is powerful. We learned last week about the importance of engaging God's Word. On Saturday morning, we will discuss in practical ways how to encounter the Scriptures each and every day. I hope you will plan to join us for the Scripture Engagement Workshop in the lower auditorium at **9 AM** on **Saturday, March 5**. We should conclude around noon.

As we come to worship on Sunday, we will engage God's word by studying together Luke 15. This is one of my favorite chapters in all of Scripture. Luke records three familiar parables. The context for all three stories is set in verse 1-2.

>(Luke 15:1-2 NIV) Now the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”

Notice the two distinct groups. On the one hand, we have _tax collectors and sinners_ surrounding Jesus. We often think of God as opposed to sinners. This is how the religious leaders understood God. They are criticizing Jesus; they are repulsed that Jesus would spend time with those engaged in practices that are contrary to the law of God. It is in this setting that Jesus relates three stories.

Each story has to do with something that is _lost_. Join us on Sunday as we explore the heart of God revealed in these parables. I would encourage you to read Luke 15 as you prepare for worship on Sunday.


