---
author: Wade Allen
title: Light
date: 2018-06-25
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
Yesterday, I asked the congregation in both services if there was a word that came to mind when they thought of 1 John. Both services had at least one person who mentioned *love*. Love is a primary theme in John's letter. A second theme that was not mentioned yesterday is light. In this week's passage, John highlights the nature and role of light. Light exposes darkness. As you know, very little light will drive intense darkness away. The Scriptures often describe God as light. John boldly declares that if we are walking in darkness and claim to have fellowship with God, then we are lying.

Join us on Sunday as we continue to reflect on John's first letter. Let me invite you to read ahead as you prepare for worship on Sunday.

>(1 John 1:5-2:2 NIV) This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you: God is light; in him there is no darkness at all. If we claim to have fellowship with him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live out the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, purifies us from all sin. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar and his word is not in us. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anybody does sin, we have an advocate with the Father—Jesus Christ, the Righteous One. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins of the whole world.
 
