---
author: Wade Allen
title: Odds Against Him
date: 2018-11-12
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
Sunday is going to be a fantastic day! We are glad to have the Taylor Gospel Choir joining us for worship during a combined service at 10:45 AM. All Sunday school classes will meet during the early hour (9:15 AM). Following the service, everyone is invited downstairs for the annual Harvest Meal. As we mentioned yesterday in worship, please bring a extra dish to cover the gospel choir and the 40 women that we have invited from the YWCA. 

Many will gather the following Thursday with friends and/or family to observe Thanksgiving Day. We eat more than we should and consider God's provision in our lives. Thanksgiving is often overshadowed by the holiday shopping season with many stores opening on this evening. We barely have time thank God for what we have been given before we heading out to get more. But gratitude is a key theme for those of us who follow God. It enables us to trust God for future provision. This Sunday, we will be look at a story in the life of King Hezekiah. He is faced with an important decision whether or not to pay tribute to the Assyrians. When the odds are against him, he turns to God. Let me encourage you to read ahead this week as you prepare for worship. See you on Sunday!

>(Isaiah 36:1-3 NIV) In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah’s reign, Sennacherib king of Assyria attacked all the fortified cities of Judah and captured them. Then the king of Assyria sent his field commander with a large army from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem. When the commander stopped at the aqueduct of the Upper Pool, on the road to the Launderer’s Field, Eliakim son of Hilkiah the palace administrator, Shebna the secretary, and Joah son of Asaph the recorder went out to him.

>(Isaiah 36:13-20 NIV) Then the commander stood and called out in Hebrew, “Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria! This is what the king says: Do not let Hezekiah deceive you. He cannot deliver you! Do not let Hezekiah persuade you to trust in the Lord when he says, ‘The Lord will surely deliver us; this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.’ “Do not listen to Hezekiah. This is what the king of Assyria says: Make peace with me and come out to me. Then each of you will eat fruit from your own vine and fig tree and drink water from your own cistern, until I come and take you to a land like your own—a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards. “Do not let Hezekiah mislead you when he says, ‘The Lord will deliver us.’ Have the gods of any nations ever delivered their lands from the hand of the king of Assyria? Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they rescued Samaria from my hand? Who of all the gods of these countries have been able to save their lands from me? How then can the Lord deliver Jerusalem from my hand?”

>(Isaiah 37:1-7 NIV) When King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and went into the temple of the Lord. He sent Eliakim the palace administrator, Shebna the secretary, and the leading priests, all wearing sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. They told him, “This is what Hezekiah says: This day is a day of distress and rebuke and disgrace, as when children come to the moment of birth and there is no strength to deliver them. It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the field commander, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent to ridicule the living God, and that he will rebuke him for the words the Lord your God has heard. Therefore pray for the remnant that still survives.” When King Hezekiah’s officials came to Isaiah, Isaiah said to them, “Tell your master, ‘This is what the Lord says: Do not be afraid of what you have heard—those words with which the underlings of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. Listen! When he hears a certain report, I will make him want to return to his own country, and there I will have him cut down with the sword.’”

>(Isaiah 37:35-48 NIV) “I will defend this city and save it, for my sake and for the sake of David my servant!” Then the angel of the Lord went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning—there were all the dead bodies! So Sennacherib king of Assyria broke camp and withdrew. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there. One day, while he was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisrok, his sons Adrammelek and Sharezer killed him with the sword, and they escaped to the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son succeeded him as king.

