---
author: Wade Allen
title: Advent Begins
date: 2019-11-25
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
Thanksgiving is a season of reflection. We consider all that God has done among us and continues to do in our midst. This past Sunday, we were able to do this as a congregation. Thank you to everyone who helped lead this service. Also, thank you for all who worked to make sure that our Harvest Meal was fantastic. It was a great Sunday.

This week, we turn begin the season of Advent. Our beautiful building will be decorated, and we will be reminded that Christmas is right around the corner. Advent is a season of anticipation. While we are looking forward to Christmas (Jesus' first coming), we are also longing for Jesus' second coming. The timing is perfect for the final chapters of Revelation. Join us on Sunday as we continue our study in Revelation 19. I have included it below in the NTE version so that you might read it in preparation for worship on Sunday.

>(Revelation 19 NTE) After this I heard something like a loud voice coming from a huge crowd in heaven. "Alleluia!" they were saying. "Salvation and glory and power belong to our God!  His judgments are true and just! He has judged the great whore who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and he has avenged the blood of his servants for which she was responsible."  Once more they said, "Alleluia! The smoke from her goes up for ever and ever." Then the twenty-four elders and the four creatures fell down and worshipped God who is seated on the throne. "Amen!" they said. "Alleluia!"  And a voice came from the throne: "Give praise to our God, all you his servants, and you who fear him, both small and great."  Then I heard something like the sound of a great crowd, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of strong thunder, saying, "Alleluia! The Lord our God, the Almighty, has become king!  Let us celebrate and rejoice and give him the glory, because the marriage of the lamb has come, and his bride has prepared herself.  She has been given shining, pure linen to wear." (The linen is the righteous deeds of God's holy people.) "Write this," he said to me. "God's blessing on those who are called to the marriage supper of the lamb." And he added, "These words are the true words of God."  I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, "Look! Don't do that! I am a fellow-servant with you, and with your brothers and sisters who hold on to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God!" (The testimony of Jesus, you see, is the spirit of prophecy.) Then I saw heaven opened, and there was a white horse. The one who was sitting on it is called Faithful and True, and he judges and makes war justly.  His eyes are like a flaming fire, and there are many coronets on his head. He has a name written there which nobody knows except himself.  He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and he is called by the name "God's Word".  The armies of heaven follow him on white horses, all wearing shining, pure linen.  A sharp two-edged sword is coming out of his mouth, so that with it he can strike down the nations. He will rule them with a rod of iron, and he will tread the winepress of the wine of the anger of the wrath of Almighty God.  On his robe, and on his thigh, is written a name: King of kings, and Lord of lords. Then I saw a single angel standing in the sun, and shouting in a loud voice, calling to all the birds that fly in mid-heaven: "Come here! Gather round! This is God's great feast!  Come and eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of generals, the flesh of the strong, the flesh of horses and their riders, the flesh of all people, free and slave, small and great!"  And I saw the monster and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered for war with the one who sits on the horse and with his army.  And the monster was captured, and with it the false prophet who had performed the signs in its presence, with which it had deceived those who received the monster's mark and those who worshipped its image. The two of them were thrown alive into the lake of fire which burns with sulphur.  All the rest were killed by the sword which came out of the mouth of the one who was sitting on the horse. All the birds feasted on their flesh. 

 
