---
author: Wade Allen
title: Blessed
date: 2020-01-27
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
I was greatly encouraged by the response on Sunday morning. As church leaders shared about the ways the congregation can get involved in the various ministries, many of you pledged your involvement. Just as Peter, Andrew, James, and John dropped what they were doing and followed Jesus, you all committed to various works of ministry at First Baptist. 

This week, we continue in our study in Matthew. We come to one of the more familiar, yet baffling passages in the Bible. Many refer to this passage as the Beatitudes. Let me encourage you to read Matthew 5:1-12 as you prepare for worship. See you on Sunday.

I have greatly enjoyed reading from the NTE (New Testament for Everyone) in my devotional time. I will include the verses in that version in this entry.

>(Matthew 5:1-12 NTE) When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up the hillside, and sat down. His disciples came to him.  He took a deep breath, and began his teaching: "Blessings on the poor in spirit! The kingdom of heaven is yours. "Blessings on the mourners! You"re going to be comforted. "Blessings on the meek! You"re going to inherit the earth. "Blessings on people who hunger and thirst for God's justice! You"re going to be satisfied. "Blessings on the merciful! You'll, receive mercy yourselves. "Blessings on the pure in heart! You will see God. "Blessings on the peacemakers! You'll, be called God's children. "Blessings on people who are persecuted because of God's way! The kingdom of heaven belongs to you. "Blessings on you, when people slander you and persecute you, and say all kinds of wicked things about you falsely because of me!  Celebrate and rejoice: there's a great reward for you in heaven. That's how they persecuted the prophets who went before you." 


 
