---
author: Wade Allen
title: Magi
date: 2020-01-01
category: blog
layout: blog
comments: yes
---
 
I hope that you all had a wonderful new year. It is difficult to realize that 2020 is the present date. Yet here we are in a new decade. 2019 was filled with ambitious initiatives, including a chapter by chapter study of the book of Revelation. You can review [this series on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/showcase/6186639) if you ever want to review or revisit this subject matter. It was a learning experience for me, but I am glad to move on as we begin 2020. This Sunday, we remain in the season of Christmas as Epiphany begins on January 6.

Through Easter, we will be in the Gospel of Matthew. Each week, we will walk through the story of Jesus. This week, we come to Matthew 2:1-12. This is the rather familiar story of the Magi. I hope you will read it as you prepare for worship. See you on Sunday.
 
>(Matthew 2:1-12 NIV) After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked, "Where is the one who has been born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to worship him." When King Herod heard this he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him. When he had called together all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them where the Christ was to be born. "In Bethlehem in Judea," they replied, "for this is what the prophet has written: "'But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for out of you will come a ruler who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.'" Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared. He sent them to Bethlehem and said, "Go and make a careful search for the child. As soon as you find him, report to me, so that I too may go and worship him." After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh. And having been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country by another route. 
